Week 5 — Build a Tiny Transformer Block from Scratch

The goal should be:

Take the Multi-Head Attention already built and turn it into the smallest possible Transformer block.

You already understand: embeddings, attention, multi-head attention, residual connections, some positional encoding, ablation and head redundancy

So Week 5 should add only the next few missing pieces:
Layer Normalization
Feed-Forward Network
Residual + Norm
Stack 2 Transformer blocks
Predict the next token

Question:What did each new component actually buy us?

Dataset: Use a small GPO workflow vocabulary again:

Receive → Restock → Inventory → Forecast → Order
Order → Shipment → Receive → Restock
Inventory → Forecast → Scenario → Contract
PO → Shipment → Invoice → Reconcile
Contract → Purchase → Rebate → NCR


Generate a few hundred synthetic sequences with variations.

The task: Given the preceding tokens, predict the next workflow token.

Part 1 — Start with Week 4

Reuse Multi-Head Attention implementation.

No PyTorch `Transformer or nn.MultiheadAttention`.

You should understand every line.

Part 2 — Add the Feed-Forward Network

Explain it simply:
Attention decides what information matters.
The Feed-Forward Network decides what to do with that information.

Something as simple as:

x = Linear(d_model, 4*d_model)
x = ReLU(x)
x = Linear(4*d_model, d_model)


Then ask: Why does the Transformer expand the representation before shrinking it again?


Part 3 — Add Layer Normalization
After all these calculations, LayerNorm keeps the numbers from becoming unruly and puts the representation back onto a stable scale.


Part 4 — Complete One Transformer Block

Expectation: should eventually arrive at something conceptually like:

Input
  ↓
Multi-Head Attention
  ↓
Add Residual
  ↓
LayerNorm
  ↓
Feed Forward Network
  ↓
Add Residual
  ↓
LayerNorm


And then ask: What would happen if we removed each component?


Part 5 — Stack Two Blocks

One of the most important LLM ideas: Depth allows representations to evolve.

Block 1 might learn: Forecast is related to Inventory.

Block 2 might learn: Forecast after Inventory probably leads toward Order, while Forecast after Scenario has a different meaning.

Part 6 — Add a Tiny Next-Token Head

At the end:
logits = Linear(d_model, vocab_size)
probabilities = softmax(logits)


Now you have, conceptually: a tiny language model.
Tokens
→ Embeddings
→ Positional information
→ Transformer blocks
→ Vocabulary probabilities
→ Next token



Three models:

Model A: Embedding → Linear → Prediction
Model B: Embedding → Attention → Prediction
Model C: Embedding → Transformer Block → Prediction

Which one generalizes best to unseen workflow sequences?

Goal is to establish whether the architecture actually matters.



Last week you built the mechanism that decides where to look.
This week, build the machinery that decides what to do with what it found.


