Week 4
======

Now since we know that why Attention is used and what is Attention mechanism and Q, K and V are derived in Attention mechanism and how it adds contextual meaning to each word.

The attention mechanism where the Q, K and V are derived from the Same input sentence is called as Self Attention which we completed last week..

With the attention now we can compute the Q,K,V values in parallel and leverage GPUs.

Although Attention mechanism adds contextual meaning to the token representation, it is order blind!.


For example: 

Consider the order of  log events in the GPO, Normal Compliant sequence:

 
  -> [Contract, Order, Shipment, Invoice, Rebate]

(A GPO contract is established, Order is place, Goods are shipped, Invoice generate and Volume rebate claimed)

  Here Contract is at the position 0 where as the Rebate is at Position 4 

Now, lets shuffle the order of log events

  -> [Rebate , Invoice, Order, Contract, Shipment]
This is a audit risk compliant, Where Rebates are claimed at position 0 before contract or order exists- a potential fraud or an error in billing.

If we shuffle the tokens interestingly we see that the attention scores are the same which means it is missing the positional information, this is obvious we are calculating Q K V for each of the tokens with respect to the Embedding of each token and Embedding is just the General or the base representation of the token/word.


Therefore to preserve the position information with each contextual representation we would have to inject the positional information before calculating the Q, K, V values.

This is simply done by adding the Position-dependent vectors to token embeddings so that while the attention scores are calculated it takes the position into consideration.

What is Position-dependent vector and how is it calculated?

A Position-dependent vector is a vector containing position encodings in a dimensional space similar to the dimension of the token.

Usually the Position-dependent vector is calculated in many ways one of which is learned in similar ways as the embeddings.

Second which is most popular is using the Sinusoidal waves because of the following reasons.

Consider we have 4 tokens and dimension of each token is also 4

Now,  totally there are 4 positions and 4 dimensions for each position

       col1	col2	  col3	     col4
Pos 0 sin(0)   cos(0)   sin(0/100)   cos (0/100)

Pos 1 sin(1)	cos(1)	sin(1/100)   cos(1/100)

Pos 2  sin(2) ....

Pos 3  sin(3) ....

With Sinusoidal waves we can always ensure the following.

- We can always have bounded values no matter how long the sequence is will solve the explosion problem
- Extrapolation of sequence lengths without training
- It allows attention mechanism learn relative distance relationships 

Now lets take the QKV values now we know that Q = X * WQ where X is sequence matrix containing the Embeddings of the sequence.

Now Instead of the embeddings X(P) = (X(Embedding) + Position-dependent Vector)  Where X(P) is Contextual representation along with Positional context

Now the model would know the difference when Rebate comes before Contract.

This way we solved the Positional Information problem, Now the model will know the difference 

But there is another problem which is the training problem.

For Text Genration, we need to use a mask to prevent the attention mechanism from looking at future tokens, because in text generation we are generating tokens one by one and we can't look at the future tokens.

This is done by just adding a mask of -inf  to the token representations.

is there is a sentence or sequence of log events is shorter than the max sequence length we add padding tokens to the sequence. 

Attention mechanism
Embeddings-> sequence matrix ->( concatenate PositionEncoding using a Sinusoidal approach)-> We get the Position aware Embeddings -> Calculate QK => Attention Matrix -> Softmax => V => Contextual rich and positional aware embeddings-> Feed to next layer

When positional -encoding aling with Attention solves positional awareness and enriches the contextual meaning why do we need multi head attention ?
Lets us understand with an example consider forecast is the current token.

[Order, Shipment, Inventory, Invoice, Contract, Forecast]

The Forecasts asks which token should influence the meaning in this sequence
It will atten to all the previous tokens
1.Inventory -> current stock position2.Order previous procurement activity
3.Shipment -> supply avaliable date
4.Invoice -> payment terms and historical spending
5. Contract -> price and pruchasing terms.

the resultant is a richer context-aware representation of the token forecast.

What is the problem we are trying to solve here?
A Single attention combines all the above relationships into a one weighted mixture. If inventory is the strongest signal for predicting the required order quantity the single head may assign more attention to inventory. 
However, this does not mean the other relationships are unimportant. This is a limitation of a single attention head.

Therefore to overcome this limitation and to capture different relationships we use multi-head attention.

Multi head attention allows several heads to examine the same sequences using different learned Q, K, V projections.

Where One head may focus on Inventory, other on  shipments and another on financial information and another on contract terms.









